
<!-- mtoc-start -->

* [Lecture 1](#lecture-1)
  * [Introduction](#introduction)
    * [Polynomials](#polynomials)
    * [Divisibility](#divisibility)
    * [Irreducibility](#irreducibility)
  * [Lecture 2](#lecture-2)
    * [Minimal polynomials](#minimal-polynomials)
    * [Symmetric polynomials](#symmetric-polynomials)
    * [The SFT](#the-sft)
    * [Proving the algebraic numbers form a field](#proving-the-algebraic-numbers-form-a-field)
  * [Lecture 3](#lecture-3)
    * [Field extensions](#field-extensions)
    * [Artin's primitive element thm.](#artins-primitive-element-thm)
    * [Bases of field extensions](#bases-of-field-extensions)
    * [Conjugates from other conjugates](#conjugates-from-other-conjugates)
  * [Lecture 4](#lecture-4)
    * [Field embeddings, cont'd](#field-embeddings-contd)
    * [Generators of field extensions](#generators-of-field-extensions)
    * [Bases for field extensions](#bases-for-field-extensions)
    * [Discriminants](#discriminants)
    * [Introducing algebraic integers](#introducing-algebraic-integers)
    * [Primitive polynomials](#primitive-polynomials)
  * [Lecture 5](#lecture-5)
    * [Criteria for algebraic integers](#criteria-for-algebraic-integers)
    * [The ring of algebraic integers](#the-ring-of-algebraic-integers)
    * [Integral bases](#integral-bases)
    * [Ring theory, again](#ring-theory-again)
    * [Units in the ring of algebraic integers](#units-in-the-ring-of-algebraic-integers)

<!-- mtoc-end -->

### Lecture 1
2024-01-19

#### Introduction
- **Q.** Why study number theory?
    - Diophantine equations, cryptography, etc.
- **Def.** Number field <!-- 1706276757344 -->
    - Extension $E/\mathbb{Q}$ having finite degree.
- **Q.** Form of a number field? <!-- 1707421557040 -->
    - $\mathbb{Q}[\alpha]$, with $\alpha$ algebraic.
- **Non-ex.** 2 fields that are not number fields <!-- 1706276757379 -->
    - $\mathbb{R}$, $\mathbb{C}$, since any number field is countable. [cf.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algebraic_number_field#Examples) 
- **Ex.** Why is $\{f(\omega)\}$ not a number field if $\omega$ is not algebraic? <!-- 1706276757407 -->
    - Because it would be infinite dimensional. Finite dimensional means there's a nontrivial linear dependence relation, but then $p(\omega) = 0$ for some $p \in \mathbb{Q}[t]$.

#### Polynomials
- Recall basic terminology from ring theory: rings, ideals, polynomials, $\gcd$, relatively prime, proper factors, etc.
- **Thm.** (Eucl. algorithm). <!-- 1706276757431 -->
    - $f, g \in K[t]$, $\deg g \ge 1$. Then there exist polynomials $q, r \in K[t]$ s.t. $$f(t) = q(t)g(t) + r(t),$$ and $\deg r < \deg g$.
- *Proof.* (Eucl. algorithm). <!-- 1706276757457 -->
    - Write $f(t) = a_nb_m^{-1}t^{n-m}g(t) + f_1(t)$ and assume inductively $f_1 = q_1g + r$.

#### Divisibility
- All intuition comes from $\mathbb{Z}$.
- **Thm.** (Existence and uniqueness of GCDs). Let $f_1, f_2 \in K[x]$. Then <g>there's a unique monic $d \in K[x]$</g> defined by:
    - $d|f_1$ and $d|f_2$.
    - If $K \subset K'$, $d' \in K'[x]$, $d'|f_1$ and $d'|f_2$ in $K'[x]$, then $d|d'$ in $K'[x]$.
- **Thm.** (Existence and uniqueness of GCDs, cont'd). <!-- 1706276757506 -->
    - There are $g_1, g_2 \in K[x]$ s.t. $d = g_1f_1 + g_2f_2$.
- *Proof.* (Existence and uniqueness of GCDs). <!-- 1706276757534 -->
    - Let $S = \{f = u_1f_1 + u_2f_2 : u_1, u_2 \in K[x], f \text{ monic}\}$. Pick $d \in f$ of mimimal degree.
- **Q.** Why do we care about GCDs? <!-- 1706276757558 -->
    - Because the ideal generated by $f$ and $g$ is the principal ideal generated by their GCD.
- This explains the notation $(f, g)$.

#### Irreducibility
- Can think of irreducible polynomials as basic building blocks.
- **Thm.** If $f$ is irreducible and <g>has a common zero $\alpha$ with $g$</g>, then $f|g$. Moreover, <g>all zeros of $f$ are zeros of $g$</g>. <!-- 1706276757583 -->
- **Ex. (Need irr.)** $f(x) = (x-1)^2$ doesn't divide $g(x) = x-1$.
- *Proof.* If $f$ is irreducible and has a common zero $\alpha$ with $g$, then $f|g$. Moreover, all zeros of $f$ are zeros of $g$.
    - Use that a polynomial factorises completely over $\mathbb{C}[x]$. We get $(x - \alpha)|\gcd(f, g)$.
- **Thm.** If $f \in K[x]$ is irreducible and of degree $n$, then <g>$f$ has $n$ distinct roots over $\mathbb{C}$</g>. <!-- 1706276757609 -->
- **Ex. (Need irr., need $\mathbb{C}$)** $f(x) = (x - 1)^2$ has double root, $f(x) = x^2 + 1$ has no $2$ roots over $\mathbb{R}$.
- *Proof.* (If $f \in K[x]$ is irreducible and of degree $n$, then $f$ has $n$ distinct roots over $\mathbb{C}$). <!-- 1706276757632 -->
    - By contradiction. Consider the formal derivative.


### Lecture 2
2024-01-26

#### Minimal polynomials
- **Q.** Why do we care about minimal polynomials, algebraic elts. and conjugates?
    - They allow us to analyse field extensions, as we shall see.
    - In particular, they allow us to measure the size of a field extension, i.e. the degree.
- **Def.** Minimal polynomial of $\theta$ over $K$ <!-- 1706296066685 -->
    - The unique monic polynomial $m_{\theta}$ of minimal degree having $\theta$ as a root.
- **Def.** Algebraic elt. of degree $n$ <!-- 1706296066712 -->
    - One whose minimal polynomial has degree $n$.
- Note that $m_{\theta}$ is irr. By a result from the previous lecture, it has $n$ distinct roots in $\mathbb{C}$.
- **Def.** Conjugates of $\theta$ w.r.t. $K$ <!-- 1706296066734 -->
    - The $n$ distinct roots of $m_{\theta}$.
- **Q.** Given two algebraic numbers $\alpha$ and $\beta$, how can we combine them to form an algebraic number?
- The rest of the lecture is devoted to proving this:
- **Thm.** The numbers algebraic over $K$ <g>form a field</g>. That is, <g>$\alpha \pm \beta$, $\alpha \beta$ and $1/\beta$ are also algebraic</g>. <!-- 1706296066760 -->
- *Proof.* ($1/\beta$ is algebraic over $K$). <!-- 1706296066810 -->
    - Clear denominators of $p(\frac{1}{t})$, i.e. multiply through by $t^n$.
- To complete the proof, we need symmetric polynomials.
    - Actually, maybe not. cf. *Lang* VII, §1.

#### Symmetric polynomials
- **Def.** Symmetric polynomial $p$ <!-- 1706296066836 -->
    - If $\sigma \cdot p = p$, where $\sigma \in S_n$ acts on $p$ by $$\sigma \cdot p(x_1, \ldots, x_n) = p(x_{\sigma(1)}, \ldots, x_{\sigma(n)}).$$
- **Notation.** The subring (yes) of symmetric polynomials in $n$ variables is denoted $R[x_1, \ldots, x_n]^{S_n}$.
- **Q.** How can we build symmetric polynomials?
- **Def.** Elementary symmetric functions <!-- 1706296066863 -->
    - The functions $S_i$ s.t. $$(X + X_1) \ldots (X + X_n) = X^n + S_1 X^{n-1} + \ldots + S_n.$$
- **Ex.** $S_1$ is $X_1 + \ldots + X_n$ and $S_n = \prod X_i$, [cf.](https://math.mit.edu/classes/18.702/summary-apr30.pdf)
- **Ex.** $S_k$ is <g>$\sum_{i_1 \le \ldots \le i_k} X_{i_1} \ldots X_{i_k}$</g>. <!-- 1707421557517 -->
- The subscript indicates how many $X_i$'s we multiply before summing. This is the reason for the "flipped" enumeration.
- **Q.** How can one understand the elementary symmetric functions?
    - As a basis (see SFT). Like irreducibles polynomials for symmetric polynomials.
    - Functions of the roots $-X_i$. Vieta's formulas viewed as functions.
- **Rmk. ("The observation").** Note that if $p \in K[x]$ is monic and <g>$\alpha_i$ are its roots (duplicates mean higher multiplicity)</g>, then <g>$s_j(\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n)$</g> lie in $K$ for $j = 0, \ldots, n$. <!-- 1706296066886 -->

#### The SFT
- **Thm.** (Symmetric func thm.). Let $R$ be a ring. Every symmetric polynomial $p(x_1, \ldots, x_n) \in R[X]$ <g>can be expressed as a polynomial in the elementary symmetric functions $S_1, \ldots, S_n \in \mathbb{Z}[x_1, \ldots, x_n]$</g>. <!-- 1706296066913 -->
- **Q.** How can one understand the SFT? <!-- 1707421557594 -->
    - A symmetric polynomial can be expressed with "symmetric placeholders".
- *Proof.* (Symmetric func thm.).
    - Induction on the degree of the leading monomial/algorithmic.
    - Order the monomials in $\mathbb{Z}[x_1, \ldots, x_n]$ by degree and lexicographically (like a dictionary).
    - Find coeffs $d_1, \ldots, d_n$ s.t. $c S_1^{d_1} \ldots S_n^{d_n}$ has the same leading term as $p$, and subtract.
- The following corollary will allow us to prove the algebraic numbers form a field.
- **Cor.** (Multivariate symmetric func thm.). If $X_1, \ldots, X_m$ and $Y_1, \ldots, Y_m$ are two sets of variables with $s_1, \ldots, s_n$ and $t_1, \ldots, t_m$ as elementary symmetric functions, then any $p \in R[X_1, \ldots, X_n, Y_1, \ldots, Y_m]$ that's separately symmetric in the $X_i$'s and the $Y_i$'s can be expressed as a polynomial over $R$ in the variables $s_1, \ldots, s_n, t_1, \ldots, t_m$.
- *Proof.* (Multivariate symmetric func thm.). <!-- 1706374155271 -->
    - Regard $p$ as an elt. of $(R[X_1, \ldots, X_n])[Y_1, \ldots, Y_m]$ and apply SFT.
- **Q.** Why does the SFT matter? <!-- 1706374155295 -->
    - Tells us the elementary symmetric functions are like a basis.
    - Allows us to form long killer products with coefficients in $K[t]$.
- Then we kill the coefficients outside $K$.

#### Proving the algebraic numbers form a field
- *Proof.* (The numbers algebraic over $K$ form a field). <!-- 1706374155321 -->
    - Long killer product.
- There's even this:
- **Thm.** (Algebraic coefficients criterion). <!-- 1706374155345 -->
    - If $\omega$ is a root of $p(x) = x^m + \alpha^{(m-1)}x^{m-1} + \ldots + \alpha^{(0)}$, where $\alpha^{(i)}$ is algbraic over $K$, then $\omega$ is algebraic over $K$.
- *Proof.* (Algebraic coefficients criterion). <!-- 1706374155371 -->
    - By the SFT and the observation, we get $$H(x) = \prod_{t_0 = 1}^{n_0} \prod_{t_{m-1}}^{n_{m-1}}(x^m + \alpha_{t_{m - 1}}^{(m-1)} x^{m-1} + \ldots + \alpha_{t_0}^{(0)}) \in K[t].$$
- **Q.** Why does this matter?
    - Gives us another way of showing a number is algebraic.

### Lecture 3
2024-02-02

#### Field extensions
- **Def.** Field extension $L$ of $K$ 
    - If there's a monomorphism $K \xhookrightarrow{} L$.
- **Q.** How should we think of field extensions? <!-- 1707054442904 -->
    - Copy of $K$ in $L$ or as $k$-VS.
- **Q.** By "how much" does $L$ extend $K$?
- **Def.** Degree $[L:K]$ <!-- 1707054442933 -->
    - Dimension of $L$ as $K$-VS.
- **Prop. (Tower rule)** 
- **Def.** $K(\theta)$, where $K \subset L$ <!-- 1707054442957 -->
    - Smallest subfield of $L$ containing $K$ and $\theta$.
- **Q.** How does $K(\theta)$ look like? <!-- 1707054442986 -->
    - $K(\theta) = \{\frac{f(\theta)}{g(\theta)} : f, g \in K[x], \ g(\theta) \neq 0\}$.
- This is because a field is just a ring where we can multiply, add and divide as usual.

#### Artin's primitive element thm.
- **Def.** $K(\theta_1, \ldots, \theta_n)$
    - $K(\theta_1, \ldots, \theta_{n-1})(\theta_n)$.
- Sometimes we can represent $K(\theta_1, \ldots, \theta_{n})$ in a more economical way.
- **Thm.** (Artin's primitive element thm.). Let <g>$\theta_1, \ldots, \theta_{n}$ be algebraic over $K$</g>. Then <g>there is a $\omega \in \mathbb{C}$ algebraic over $K$ s.t. $K(\theta_1, \ldots, \theta_{n}) = K(\omega)$</g>. <!-- 1707054443008 -->
- *Proof.* (Artin's primitive element thm.). <!-- 1708010929064 -->
    - Try finding polynomials s.t. $\alpha = \frac{P(\omega)}{Q(\omega)}$ and similarly for $\beta$.
    - Construct symmetric expressions $P(\omega_{ij}) = \alpha_j Q(\omega_{ij}, \omega_{ij})$
    - Use the Lagrange interpolation formula.
- [ ] cf. *Appendix*.

#### Bases of field extensions
- **Q.** Why does Artin matter? 
    - Allows us to apply the Basis for $K(\theta)$ thm. in more situations.
- **Thm.** (Existence of basis for $k(\theta)$). Let <g>$\theta$ be algebraic of degree $n$ over $k$</g>. Then <g>every $\alpha \in k(\theta)$ has a unique representation of the form $$\alpha = c_{n-1}\theta^{n-1} + \ldots + c_0.$$</g> <!-- 1707054443085 -->
- *Proof.* (Existence of basis for $k(\theta)$). <!-- 1707054443106 -->
    - Write $\alpha = \frac{P(\theta)}{Q(\theta)}$.
    - If $\deg Q = 0$, Euclidean algorithm.
    - If $\deg Q \ge 1$, note that $\gcd(Q, m_{\theta}) = 1$.

#### Conjugates from other conjugates
- **Q.** What's the relation between the conjugates of $\theta$ and the conjugates of $\alpha$?
- **Thm.** (Conjugates of $\alpha$ in $K(\theta)$). Let <g>$\alpha = g(\theta)$, where $g \in K[x]$</g> and $n = \deg m_{\theta}$. Then: <!-- 1708010929143 -->
    - <g>$\{\alpha_{i}\} = \{g(\theta_i) : 1 \le i \le n\}$</g>.
    - <g>Each $\alpha_{i}$ appears among the $g(\theta_i)$ equally often</g>.
    - <g>$\alpha$ is algebraic of degree dividing $n$</g>.
    - <g>$m_{\theta} \mid m_{\alpha} \circ g$</g>. 
- The last statement tells us the minimal polynomial is "small".
- *Proof.* (Conjugates of $\alpha$ in $K(\theta)$). Omitted.
- **Q.** How can we express the conjugates of $\alpha$ in terms of conjugates of $\theta$? <!-- 1707054443158 -->
    - Fix an ordering of $\{\theta_i\}$ and put $\alpha_i = g(\theta_i)$.
- **Ex.** Properties of the ordering of conjugates of $\alpha$
    - $(\alpha + \beta)_i = \alpha_i + \beta_i + (\alpha \beta)_i = \alpha_i \beta_i$.
    - The ordering is independent of the choice of $g \in K[x]$ s.t. $\alpha = g(\theta)$.
- [ ] Why?


### Lecture 4
2024-02-16

#### Field embeddings, cont'd
- **Thm.** (Monomorphisms $k(\theta) \xhookrightarrow{} \mathbb{C}$). Let $k(\theta)$ be a number field with $k \subset \mathbb{Q}$. Then <g>there are exactly $n$ distinct embeddings $\sigma_i : k(\theta) \xhookrightarrow{} \mathbb{C}$</g>. These keep the ground field $k$ fixed. <!-- 1708203524700 -->
- **Q.** Must the ground field stay fixed?
    - Yes. Using that $\iota$ is a ring homomorphism, we can show $\iota(\frac{p}{q}) = \frac{p}{q}$.
- So for a given $\alpha \in k$, there are exactly $n$ distinct embeddings fixing it.
- **Def.** Conjugates of $\theta$ over $K = k(\theta)$ <!-- 1708203524724 -->
    - $\sigma_i(\theta)$ for $i = 1, \ldots, n$.
- **Q.** Why define conjugates of $k(\theta)$ in this new, strange way? <!-- 1708982339145 -->
    - If $k$ is some other field, asking that the minimal polynomial lie in $\mathbb{Q}[x]$ seems a bit ad hoc.
    - But we like $\mathbb{Q}$. So we want to consider $\mathbb{Q}(\theta)$ first, and then extend using the $\sigma_i$'s.
- *Proof.* (Monomorphisms $k(\theta) \xhookrightarrow{} \mathbb{C}$). <!-- 1708203524750 -->
    - Any monomorphism is determined by where it sends $\theta$.
    - $\sigma(\theta)$ must be a conjugate of $\theta$. This gives precisely $n$ possibilities.
- **Def.** Field polynomial $f_{\alpha}$ w.r.t. the extension $k(\theta)$ over $k$ <!-- 1708203524773 -->
    - $f_{\alpha}(x) = \prod_{i}^{n} (x - \sigma_i(\alpha))$.

#### Generators of field extensions
- Remember that $/$ means "over a field".
- **Q.** How many generators are there of $k(\theta)$ over $k$?
- **Thm.** (Generators of $k(\theta)$). Let $\theta$ be algebraic of degree $n$ and $\alpha \in k(\theta)$. Then TFAE: <!---->
    - <g>$\alpha$ has degree $n$ over $k$ (has $n$ distinct conjugates)</g>.
    - <g>$\alpha$ generates $k(\theta)$</g>.
- **Q.** How can we think of elements of high degree?
    - As "small" or "elementary". See the Generators of $k(\theta)$ thm.
- [ ] Revisit this after Artin.

#### Bases for field extensions
- **Def.** $k$-basis for $k(\theta)$ <!-- 1708760698076 -->
    - If every $\alpha \in k(\theta)$ can be expressed uniquely as $$\alpha = c_1 \omega_1 + \ldots + c_n \omega_n.$$
- **Ex.** $k$-basis for $k(\theta)$ <!-- 1708760698102 -->
    - $\{1, \theta, \theta^2, \ldots, \theta^{n-1}\}$.
- **Thm.** (Change of basis). The $n$ elements <g>$\omega_i = \sum_{j=1}^n c_{ij}\theta^{j-1}$ form a $k$-basis</g> iff $\det C \neq 0$. <!-- 1708760698127 -->
- *Proof.* (Change of basis). 
    - Linear algebra.

#### Discriminants
- **Q.** Why care about the discriminant? <!-- 1708760698155 -->
    - It tells us whether a set of $n$ elements forms a $k$-basis.
    - It's symmetric!
- Alt., they allow us to check if we can transform our favourite $k$-basis $\{1, \ldots, \theta^{n-1}\}$ into a basis $\{\omega_1, \ldots, \omega_n\}$. 
- **Def.** "The" $\Omega$
    - Rows $(\theta_1, \ldots, \theta_n)$ and columns $(\theta_1^i, \ldots, \theta_n^i)$.
- **Q.** Why is $\det \Omega \neq 0$?
    - This is a Vandermonde determinant, given by $\prod_{1 i < j \le n} (\theta_i - \theta_j)$.
    - Each factor is nonzero because the $\theta_i$'s are roots of an irreducible polynomial.
- **Def.** Discriminant $\mathrm{disc}(\omega_1, \ldots, \omega_n)$ <!-- 1708760698179 -->
    - $\det^2(\sigma_i(\omega_j))$.
- **Q.** Why is $\mathrm{disc}(\omega_1, \ldots, \omega_n) \in K$?
    - SFT tells us $\det^2(\Omega) \in K$.
    - $\det^2 C$ has coefficients in $K$, since $C \in \mathrm{Mat}_{n \times n}(K)$.
- **Ex.** Geometric interpretation of the discriminant
    - It measures the size of the paralelllpiped. If the volume is large, "a lot of information is preserved".

#### Introducing algebraic integers
- **Q.** Why care about algebraic integers?
    - They're like a generalisation of our favourite ring $\mathbb{Z} \subset \mathbb{Q}$.
- **Def.** Algebraic integer $\alpha$ over $\mathbb{Q}$
    - If $m_{\alpha} \in \mathbb{Z}[x]$.
- **Ex.** Algebraic integer, not algebraic integer
    - $\sqrt{2}$, $\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}$.
- **Q.** How may we think of algebraic integers?
    - They're give the most "basic" kind of extension.
- **Thm.** The set of algebraic integers form a <g>ring</g>. <!-- 1708760698203 -->
- **Q.** The definition of an algebraic integer is a bit clunky. How do we check if a given $\alpha$ is an algebraic integer?
    - We can check if it's a root of any monic polynomial $p \in \mathbb{Z}[x]$.
- **Thm.** ($\mathbb{A}$ criterion). If <g>$\alpha$ is a root of a monic (not necessarily irreducible) polynomial $p \in \mathbb{Z}[x]$</g>, then $\alpha$ is an algebraic integer. <!-- 1708760698229 -->

#### Primitive polynomials
- **Def.** Primitive polynomial <!-- 1708760698256 -->
    - If $\gcd(c_0, \ldots, c_n) = 1$.
- **Lemma.** (Product of primitive polynomials). If <g>$P, Q \in \mathbb{Z}[x]$ are primitive polynomials</g>, so is $PQ$. <!-- 1708760698277 -->
- *Proof.* (Product of primitive polynomials). <!-- 1708760698305 -->
    - Suppose not, i.e. $P(x)Q(x) \equiv 0 \mod p$ for some prime.
    - Take the last coefficient that's not $0$ mod $p$.
- **Q.** What's *the* proof of Product of primitive polynomials?
    - Reduction $\mathbb{Z}[x] \to \mathbb{Z}/p\mathbb{Z}[x]$ is a homomorphism.

### Lecture 5
2024-02-23

#### Criteria for algebraic integers
- **Rmk.** *The* proof is much easier. [cf.](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/2458960/understanding-the-proof-that-algebraic-integers-are-a-subring-of-bbbc) 
- *Proof.* (Roots of monic $P \in \mathbb{Z}[x]$ lie in $\mathbb{A}$). <!-- 1708875517971 -->
    - Consider the primitive $\tilde{m}_{\alpha} = c m_{\alpha}$.
    - Write $P(x) = h(x)\tilde{m}_{\alpha}(x)$.
    - Consider $h(x) = \frac{c_1}{c_2}g(x)$, where $g$ is primitive.
- **Q.** How can we understand primitive polynomials? <!-- 1708875517996 -->
    - They're "rigid". Cannot pull out coefficients.
- **Q.** Why do we care about primitive polynomials? <!-- 1708875518021 -->
    - Their rigidity allows us say things about monic polynomials.
- *Proof.* ($\mathbb{A}$ is a ring).  <!-- 1708875518048 -->
    - Killer products with roots $\alpha \beta$ and $\alpha + \beta$.
- **Thm.** (Rational coefficients criterion). If <g>$\omega$ is a root of $p(x) = x^m + \alpha_{m-1}x^{m-1} + \ldots + \alpha_0$, where $\alpha_i \in \mathbb{A}$</g>, then $\omega \in \mathbb{A}$. <!-- 1708875518071 -->

#### The ring of algebraic integers
- **Def.** $\mathbb{A}$
    - The ring of algebraic integers.
- **Def.** $\mathcal{O}_K$ <!-- 1708875518098 -->
    - $\mathcal{O}_K = \mathbb{A} \cap K$.
- **Thm.** (Clearing denominators). If $\alpha$ is algebraic, then <g>there's a $c \in \mathbb{Z} \setminus \{0\}$ s.t. $c \alpha \in \mathbb{A}$</g>. <!-- 1708875518123 -->
- So we can clear denominators, turning an algebraic number into an algebraic integer. 
- **Q.** Why do we care about the clearing denominators thm.? <!-- 1708875518143 -->
    - It gives us a way to represent elements of $\mathbb{Q}(\theta)$ quotients of algebraic integers.
- **Cor.** Any $\gamma \in \mathbb{Q}(\theta)$ can be represented as <g>$\frac{\alpha}{\beta}$, where $\alpha, \beta \in \mathcal{O}_K$</g>. <!-- 1708875518170 -->
- *Proof.* Clearing denominators.
- *Proof.* (Clearing denominators). <!-- 1708875518197 -->
    - Can find a $P \in \mathbb{Z}[x]$ with $\alpha$ as a root.
    - Multiply by $c_n^{n-1}$ to make it monic.

#### Integral bases
- **Thm.** (Existence of integral basis). <g>Every number field</g> of degree $n$ has a <g>$\mathbb{Q}$-basis $$\{\omega_1, \ldots, \omega_n\}$$consisting of algebraic integers</g> with the property that <g>any $\mathbb{Q}$-linear combination represents an integer iff it's a $\mathbb{Z}$-linear combination</g>. <!-- 1708875518224 -->
- **Ex.** $\{1\}$ is an integral basis for $\mathbb{Q}$
- *Proof.* (Existence of integral basis). <!-- 1708875518246 -->
    - Extend the power basis, i.e. take $\{1, c\theta, (c \theta)^2, \ldots, (c \theta)^{n-1}\}$.
    - Among bases $\subset \mathbb{A}$, take the one with minimal discriminant.
- [ ] Why $\Omega = \alpha - d\omega_1 \in \mathcal{O}_K$? There can be more coefficients in $\mathbb{Q} \setminus \mathbb{Z}$, right?
- [ ] What's up with the change of basis matrix?
- **Def.** Integral basis ($\mathbb{Z}$-basis) <!-- 1708875518270 -->
    - A $\mathbb{Q}$-basis $\subset \mathbb{A}$ s.t. any $\mathbb{Q}$-linear combination represents an integer iff it's a $\mathbb{Z}$-linear combination.
- [ ] Is the discriminant of a non-integral basis well-defined, i.e. basis-independent? Seems like we it is anyway...
- **Q.** When is the discriminant of a basis well-defined?
- **Q.** Why is the discriminant of a $\mathbb{Z}$-basis well-defined? <!-- 1708875518298 -->
    - Both COB matrices are $\mathrm{Mat}_{n \times n}(\mathbb{Z})$.
- **Def.** Discriminant of $K = \mathbb{Q}(\theta)$, $d_K$ <!-- 1708875518321 -->
    - $\mathrm{disc}(\omega_1, \ldots, \omega_{n})$.

#### Ring theory, again
- Most definitions are the same. But we require all elements to be in $\mathbb{A}$.
- **Def.** $\alpha \mid \beta$, where $\alpha, \beta \in \mathbb{A}$ <!-- 1708875518347 -->
    - There's a $\gamma \in \mathbb{A}$ s.t. $\beta = \alpha \gamma$.
- **Def.** Unit $\epsilon \in \mathbb{A}$ <!-- 1708875518371 -->
    - There's a $\frac{1}{\epsilon} \in \mathbb{A}$, i.e. $\epsilon \mid 1$.

#### Units in the ring of algebraic integers
- **Q.** When is $\alpha$ a unit?
- **Lemma.** Let $\epsilon \in \mathbb{A}$ be a unit. Then <g>so are all its conjugates</g>. <!-- 1708875518399 -->
- *Proof.* (Conjugates of units of $\mathbb{A}$ are units).
    - Consider $P(\epsilon) = Q(\frac{1}{\epsilon}) = 0$.
- [ ] Why is $Q(\frac{1}{\epsilon_i}) = 0$?
- **Lemma.** The units in $\mathbb{A}$ form <g>a group</g>. <!-- 1708875518422 -->
- *Proof.* (Units of $\mathbb{A}$ form a group). 
    - Routine. Use that $\mathbb{A}$ is a ring.
- **Lemma.** $\epsilon \in \mathbb{A}$ is a unit iff <g>$N(\epsilon) = \pm 1$</g>. <!-- 1708875518449 -->
- *Proof.* ($\epsilon \in \mathbb{A}$ unit iff $N(\epsilon) = \pm 1$). <!-- 1708875518471 -->
    - $\Rightarrow$: Use the SFT to conclude $N(\epsilon) \in \mathbb{Z}$.
    - $\Leftarrow$: Routine.
